# Diabetes-A-Deep-Dive
Diabetes was the ninth leading cause of death in 2018, accounting for an estimated 1.5 million deaths. Diabetes is a fairly common disease that affects blood glucose regulation. It can harm other vital organs in the body if not treated promptly. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 34.2 million Americans had diabetes in 2018, and 88 million had prediabetes. Diabetes is a chronic condition that occurs when the body cannot produce insulin (insulin is the hormone that regulates blood sugar) or when the body's insulin is not processed properly, leading to dangerously high blood glucose levels. Diabetes is incurable, but it is manageable. Diabetes over time leads to serious damage to the eyes, nerves, and blood vessels, causing heart attacks, strokes, and kidney failures. We aimed to develop predictive models to identify risk factors for diabetes, which could help facilitate early diagnosis and intervention and reduce medical costs.
There are many existing models for the prediction of diabetes. However, due to the complexity of diabetes's causality, the prediction performance (particularly sensitivity) of models based on survey data needs to be improved. Furthermore, while many diabetes risk factors, such as obesity and age, have been identified, others have yet to be identified. We use the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), an annual health-related telephone survey conducted by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to identify various risk factors. To investigate the statistical significance of our hypotheses, we conduct hypothesis testing. The goal of our study was to develop diabetes predictive models using 2014 BRFSS data and machine learning techniques of Decision Trees, Random Forest, XGBoost, and Convolutional Neural networks.
